[Monitor Query] new migration guide (#22753)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-go: sdk/monitor/query/MIGRATION.md

Logs largely remained the same; the code just moved from `azquery` to [`azlogs`][azlogs].

Metrics has a larger split. Users wanting to use the existing ARM APIs should use the [`armmonitor`][armmonitor] module. `armmonitor` contains all the metrics functionality from `azquery` and more.

[`azmetrics`][azmetrics] contains a [new data plane metrics feature][azmetrics_blog] that wasn't previously available in `azquery`. This allows users to query data from one or multiple resource IDs using a data plane endpoint. `azmetrics` will expand in the future when the service adds more features.

## Name changes

| Old module   | Old method name |New module | New method name | 
| ----------- | ----------- | --- | --- |
| `azquery` | `LogsClient.QueryWorkspace` | `azlogs` | `Client.QueryWorkspace` |
|  | `LogsClient.QueryResource` |  | `Client.QueryResource` |
| | `LogsClient.QueryBatch` | | N/A |
| | `MetricsClient.QueryResource` | `armmonitor` | `MetricsClient.List` |
| | `MetricsClient.NewListDefinitionsPager`  | | `MetricDefinitionsClient.NewListPager` |
| | `MetricsClient.NewListNamespacesPager`  | | `MetricNamespacesClient.NewListPager` |

> |  | N/A | `azmetrics` | `Client.QueryResources` | 

Reviewer: If this is an entirely new method with no equivalent in the old module, I wouldn't call it a name change
```suggestion
```

Author: fixed in [05248e7](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/05248e7745d328748da47cc44a9df680b9d6584e)

		Timespan:            to.Ptr("2021-04-20T09:00:00.000Z/2021-04-20T14:00:00.000Z"),
		Interval:            to.Ptr("PT6H"),
		Metricnames:         to.Ptr("BlobCount,BlobCapacity"),
		Aggregation:         to.Ptr("average,minimum,maximum"),
		Top:                 to.Ptr[int32](5),
		Orderby:             to.Ptr("average asc"),
		Filter:              to.Ptr("Tier eq '*'"),
		ResultType:          nil,
		Metricnamespace:     to.Ptr("Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices"),
		AutoAdjustTimegrain: to.Ptr(true),
		ValidateDimensions:  to.Ptr(false),
	})
	if err != nil {
		//TODO: handle partial error
	}
	_ = res
}
```

<!-- LINKS -->
[armmonitor]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/resourcemanager/monitor/armmonitor
[azlogs]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/monitor/query/azlogs
[azmetrics]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/monitor/query/azmetrics
[azmetrics_blog]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/multi-resource-metrics-query-support-in-the-azure-monitor-query-libraries/
[github_issues]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/issues
[rest_api]: https://learn.microsoft.com/rest/api/monitor/

> 

Author: fixed in [05248e7](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/05248e7745d328748da47cc44a9df680b9d6584e)

# Guide to migrate from `azquery` to `azlogs`, `azmetrics`, and `armmonitor`

With the service team's creation of a new data plane metrics endpoint, the Go SDK team decided to reimagine our Monitor story. After careful deliberation, we decided to restructure Monitor Query to more accurately reflect the [REST API][rest_api].

Logs largely remained the same; the code just moved from `azquery` to [`azlogs`][azlogs].

Metrics has a larger split. Users wanting to use the existing ARM APIs should use the [`armmonitor`][armmonitor] module. `armmonitor` contains all the metrics functionality from `azquery` and more.

[`azmetrics`][azmetrics] contains a [new data plane metrics feature][azmetrics_blog] that wasn't previously available in `azquery`. This allows users to query data from one or multiple resource IDs using a data plane endpoint. `azmetrics` will expand in the future when the service adds more features.

> ### Name changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Name changes
```

Author: fixed in [b994525](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/b994525bed1636c83155a3932ce00aeb00e2fc70)

> | old module   | old method name |new module | new method name | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Old module   | Old method name |New module | New method name | 
```

Author: fixed in [b994525](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/b994525bed1636c83155a3932ce00aeb00e2fc70)

# Guide to migrate from `azquery` to `azlogs`, `azmetrics`, and `armmonitor`

With the service team's creation of a new data plane metrics endpoint, the Go SDK team decided to reimagine our Monitor story. After careful deliberation, we decided to restructure Monitor Query to more accurately reflect the [REST API][rest_api].

Logs largely remained the same; the code just moved from `azquery` to [`azlogs`][azlogs].

Metrics has a larger split. Users wanting to use the existing ARM API's should use the [`armmonitor`][armmonitor] module. `armmonitor` contains all the metrics functionality from `azquery` and more.

> [`azmetrics`][azmetrics] contains the [new data plane metrics][azmetrics_blog] functionality. This new code was not previously generally available in `azquery`. The code allows users to query data from one or multiple resource IDs using a data plane endpoint. `azmetrics` will expand in the future when the service adds more features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`azmetrics`][azmetrics] contains a [new data plane metrics feature][azmetrics_blog] that wasn't previously available in `azquery`. This allows users to query data from one or multiple resource IDs using a data plane endpoint. `azmetrics` will expand in the future when the service adds more features.
```

### Name changes

| old module   | old method name |new module | new method name | 
| ----------- | ----------- | --- | --- |

> | `azquery` | LogsClient.QueryWorkspace | `azlogs` | Client.QueryWorkspace |

Reviewer 2: Code-fence method names in this table

Author: fixed with [c79390d](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/c79390ddba46a599c6717d0bde75b9d3ccb46996)

|  | LogsClient.QueryResource |  | Client.QueryResource |
| | LogsClient.QueryBatch | | N/A |
| | MetricsClient.QueryResource | `armmonitor` | MetricsClient.List |
| | MetricsClient.NewListDefinitionsPager  | | MetricDefinitionsClient.NewListPager |
| | MetricsClient.NewListNamespacesPager  | | MetricNamespacesClient.NewListPager |
|  | N/A | `azmetrics` | Client.QueryResources | 

> The `azlogs` module does not contain the `QueryBatch` method. To request that functionality, please [file an issue in our github repo][github_issues], so we can prioritize adding it to `azlogs`.

Reviewer: Is this something we already plan to do?

Author: @scottaddie Is the service team still planning to deprecate Batch Query? Was not going to add it to the sdk at all if they are. 

If not, was thinking on waiting to see if there's any demand for batch. It's an ugly API.

Author: fixed in [b994525](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/b994525bed1636c83155a3932ce00aeb00e2fc70)

removing paragraph

    }
    client, err := azquery.NewMetricsClient(cred, nil)
    if err != nil {
        //TODO: handle error
    }

    // execute the metrics query
    res, err := client.QueryResource(context.TODO(), "<resourceID>",
        &azquery.MetricsClientQueryResourceOptions{
            Timespan:        to.Ptr(azquery.NewTimeInterval(time.Date(2022, 12, 25, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC), time.Date(2022, 12, 25, 12, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC))),
            Interval:        to.Ptr("PT1M"),
            MetricNames:     nil,
            Aggregation:     to.SliceOfPtrs(azquery.AggregationTypeAverage, azquery.AggregationTypeCount),
            Top:             to.Ptr[int32](3),
            OrderBy:         to.Ptr("Average asc"),
            Filter:          to.Ptr("BlobType eq '*'"),
            ResultType:      nil,
            MetricNamespace: to.Ptr("Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices"),
        })
    if err != nil {
        //TODO: handle error
    }
}
```

### `armmonitor`

The code in `armmonitor` is closer to the REST API; therefore, there are some name changes. Additionally, `azquery.MetricsClient` is separated into [different clients](#name-changes).

```go
import (

>     "context"

Reviewer 2: Indentation on this line looks off

Author: fixed with [c79390d](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/c79390ddba46a599c6717d0bde75b9d3ccb46996)

        Interval:            to.Ptr("PT6H"),
        Metricnames:         to.Ptr("BlobCount,BlobCapacity"),
        Aggregation:         to.Ptr("average,minimum,maximum"),
        Top:                 to.Ptr[int32](5),
        Orderby:             to.Ptr("average asc"),
        Filter:              to.Ptr("Tier eq '*'"),
        ResultType:          nil,
        Metricnamespace:     to.Ptr("Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices"),
        AutoAdjustTimegrain: to.Ptr(true),
        ValidateDimensions:  to.Ptr(false),
    })
    if err != nil {
        //TODO: handle partial error
    }
}
```

<!-- LINKS -->
[armmonitor]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/resourcemanager/monitor/armmonitor
[azlogs]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/monitor/query/azlogs
[azmetrics]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/monitor/query/azmetrics
[azmetrics_blog]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/multi-resource-metrics-query-support-in-the-azure-monitor-query-libraries/
[github_issues]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/issues

> [rest_api]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/monitor/

Reviewer 2: Omit the locale string

Author: fixed with [c79390d](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/pull/22753/commits/c79390ddba46a599c6717d0bde75b9d3ccb46996)
